:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: main-wrapper
- [Main](#div-main){#main-link .tab-link .current role="tab"
  aria-selected="true" aria-controls="main"}
- [Upcoming Events](#div-upcomingevents){#upcomingevents-link .tab-link
  role="tab" aria-selected="false" aria-controls="upcomingevents"}
- [Past Events](#div-pastevents){#pastevents-link .tab-link role="tab"
  aria-selected="false" aria-controls="pastevents"}
- [AppSec Africa](#div-pasteventsarchive){#pasteventsarchive-link
  .tab-link role="tab" aria-selected="false"
  aria-controls="pasteventsarchive"}
- [Sponsorship](#div-sponsorship){#sponsorship-link .tab-link role="tab"
  aria-selected="false" aria-controls="sponsorship"}
- [Team & Organization](#div-team){#team-link .tab-link role="tab"
  aria-selected="false" aria-controls="team"}

# OWASP Morocco {#owasp-morocco .page-title}

::::::::::::::::::::: {#main .page-body .tab role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="main-link" tabindex="0"}
::: {#sec-main .section .page-body}
## Welcome

Welcome to the OWASP Our mission is to enrich Morocco's application
security community and cyber security community. We hope you can join us
in accomplishing that.

### Modern Society

#### A modern society focused on the future

Through rooted in its traditions, Morocco offers all the conveniences of
modern times

Morocco is a firmly future-focused country that has succeeded in
preserving its traditions and promoting its cultural heritage by
harnessing them to drive development. The city of Marrakesh is a perfect
example: the Medina district and its souks have an unmatched
old-fashioned charm, while Guéliz and Hivernage are decked out with the
most modern infrastructure and facilities. Far from being in conflict,
modernity and tradition together are what makes Morocco strong.

As a visitor, you will enjoy every modern convenience and pleasure. For
your accommodations, Morocco is full of hotels in every price range from
the major international chains. Plus it also has the biggest
international ready-to-wear shops, which are taking advantage of the
ideal opportunity for positioning in a fast developing country.

Morocco is striving to avoid the pitfalls of modern life, especially
when it comes to the environment, by favoring tourism practices that are
respectful of the Earth and local communities. As the author of a
sustainable tourism charter and host of COP22, Morocco is on the front
lines to preserve our planet.

#### Call For Speakers

With the Morocco chapter, we aim to organize at least 6 local chapter
meetings per year. If you would like to present a talk on Application
Security at future OWASP Morocco Chapter events, feel free to reach out
to us and let us know - we'd love to have you join us!

## Upcoming Meeting/Event(s)

https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/morocco-owasp-meetup-group/

#### Code of Conduct

We hope you enjoy our events, we care deeply about inclusivity and
diversity so that OWASP is a comfortable and welcoming community for
everyone. Please reach out to one of our chapter leaders if you have any
feedback or would like to speak to us, we take these matters very
seriously.
:::

::: {#sec-upcomingevents .section .page-body .tab-hidden}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Upcoming Event September 26th, 2025: DevSecOps Day at University of Settat Morocco

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée DevSecOps à l'université de
Settat

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : How to build DevSecOps Pipleline

9h40-10h30 : DevSecOps Risk, Challenges and success factors

10h30-16h00 : DvSecOps Lab with Opensource tools

16h00-17h00 : DevSecOps Metrics and Monitoring

### Subscription (Free)

L'accès est libre mais l'inscription est obligatoire via Eventbrite. Une
personne inscrite qui ne se présente pas ne pourr pas assister à nos
prochaines ateliers sauf cas de force majeure. En effet les places sont
limités et toute inscription avec non présence c'est une place perdue
pour d'autres.
:::

::::::::::::::: {#sec-pastevents .section .page-body .tab-hidden}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Past Event {#past--event}

## Upcoming Event Mars 22th, 2025: OWASP Day at University of Mohammed 1er OUJDA

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée OWASP Day à l'université
Mohammed 1er OUJDA

Agenda:

Matinée : 10h00-13h00

10h00-11h30 : Cybersecurioty Resilience by Saad HAITAMI

11h30-13h00 : How to build the NextGen SOC Gen 3 by Azzeddine RAMRAMI

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free}

L'accès est libre mais l'inscription est obligatoire via Eventbrite. Une
personne inscrite qui ne se présente pas ne pourr pas assister à nos
prochaines ateliers sauf cas de force majeure. En effet les places sont
limités et toute inscription avec non présence c'est une place perdue
pour d'autres.

## Upcoming Event April 14th to 16th, 2025 : OWASP Morocco will be present at GITEX MARRAKECH 2025 {#upcoming-event-april-14th-to-16th-2025--owasp-morocco-will-be-present-at-gitex-marrakech-2025}

OWASP Morocco chapter sera présent dans le GITEX Marrakech 2025.

## Upcoming Event Mars 22th, 2025: DevSecOps Day at University of Settat Morocco

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée DevSecOps à l'université de
Settat

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : How to build DevSecOps Pipleline

9h40-10h30 : DevSecOps Risk, Challenges and success factors

10h30-16h00 : DvSecOps Lab with Opensource tools

16h00-17h00 : DevSecOps Metrics and Monitoring

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-1}

L'accès est libre mais l'inscription est obligatoire via Eventbrite. Une
personne inscrite qui ne se présente pas ne pourr pas assister à nos
prochaines ateliers sauf cas de force majeure. En effet les places sont
limités et toute inscription avec non présence c'est une place perdue
pour d'autres.

## Upcoming Event Novembre 11th, 2024: Mixed Threat Modeling using STRIDE & PAST {#upcoming-event-novembre-11th-2024-mixed-threat-modeling-using-stride--past}

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée Threat Modeling via Teams.

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : Introduction au Threat Modeling et Secure SDLC

9h40-10h30 : Threat Modeling avec la méthodologie STRIDE

10h30-11h10 : Threat Modeling avec la méthodologie PASTA

11h10-13h00 : Threat Modeling avec la méthodologie en mixant les deux
méthodes

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-2}

L'accès est libre mais l'inscription est obligatoire via Eventbrite. Une
personne inscrite qui ne se présente pas ne pourr pas assister à nos
prochaines ateliers sauf cas de force majeure. En effet les places sont
limités et toute inscription avec non présence c'est une place perdue
pour d'autres.

## Upcoming Event December 25th, 2024: Advanced Web Application Penetration Testing - Focus on threa OWASP TOP 10 2021 risks: SSRF, Insecure Design

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée Threat Modeling via Teams.

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : OWASP TOP 10 2021

9h40-10h30 : OWASP TOP 10 SSRF

10h30-11h10 : OWASP TOP InSecure Design. We will speak about Post
Quantum Cryptography

11h10-13h00 : OWASP TOP 10 Security Logging & Monitoring how Attack
Surface Management techniques will mitigate this risk

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-3}

L'accès est libre mais l'inscription est obligatoire via Eventbrite. Une
personne inscrite qui ne se présente pas ne pourr pas assister à nos
prochaines ateliers sauf cas de force majeure. En effet les places sont
limités et toute inscription avec non présence c'est une place perdue
pour d'autres. ---

Les règles d'utilisation d'Internet Les dangers d'Internet Le
cyberharcèlement L'utilisation d'une messagerie Utilisation sécurisé les
blogs Utilisation sécurisé des réseaux sociaux --- title: upcomingevents
displaytext: Upcoming Events layout: null tab: true order: 1 tags:
morocco-tag

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: upcomingevents displaytext: Upcoming Events layout: null tab:
true order: 1 tags: morocco-tag

------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: upcomingevents displaytext: Upcoming Events layout: null tab:
true order: 1 tags: morocco-tag

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Upcoming Event June 21th, 2024: DevSecOps Day 2 at FST Settat

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée DevSecOps à la Faculté des
Sciences de Settat en collaboration avec l'ISTA de Settat.

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : Mot de bienvenue et d'annonce du programme de la journée

9h40-10h30 : La culture DevOps : pratiques et processus

10h30-11h10 : Les défits sécuritaires de la livraison continue

11h10-13h00 : DevSecOps : Solutions et outils (Cas de projet : OWASP
secureCodeBox Project)

Après-midi: 14h00-18h00

Workshop 1: SAST & DAST

Workshop 2: SCA & IAST

.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-4}

## Access is free at FST Settat. {#access-is-free-at-fst-settat}

## Upcoming Event April 25th, 2024: DevSecOps Day 1 at FST Settat

OWASP Morocco chapter organise une journée DevSecOps à la Faculté des
Sciences de Settat en collaboration avec l'ISTA de Settat.

Agenda:

Matinée : 9h30-13h00

9h30-9h40 : Mot de bienvenue et d'annonce du programme de la journée

9h40-10h30 : La culture DevOps : pratiques et processus

10h30-11h10 : Les défits sécuritaires de la livraison continue

11h10-13h00 : DevSecOps : Solutions et outils (Cas de projet : OWASP
secureCodeBox Project)

Après-midi: 14h00-18h00

Workshop 1: Architecture Secure by Design

Workshop 2: Security and Governance for your CI/CD pipelines

.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-5}

Access is free at FST Settat.

## Upcoming Event October 05th, 2023: Stratégie de sécurité des systèmes d'informations: Risques et Opportunités

OWASP Morocco chapter et Experts Club organise un séminaire sur
réservation organisé par Groupe Le Matin en partenariat avec une
société. Décliné sur une journée, un groupe d'experts internationaux et
natio- naux intervient pour éclairer un public de décideurs sur une
thématique précise. Au menu : des présentations théoriques et pratiques
afin de répondre aux attentes des participants.

La cybercriminalité n'épargne plus aucune structure, grande ou petite,
publique ou privée. Elle fonctionne sur le ciblage quotidien et
structuré de dizaines de milliers d'organisations partout dans le monde.

Loin d'être des personnes isolées ou des groupuscules, des organisations
criminelles structurées et à la pointe des technologie sont à la
manœuvre. En 2022, les pertes liées à la cybercriminalité ont été
estimées à 1.000 milliards de dollars et elles pourraient atteindre
6.000 milliards de dollars en 2023. Le Maroc n'est pas épargné.

Agenda:

Amélioration de la sécurité des SI par l'automatization de
l'orchestration à l'aide de la platforme NextGen SOAR (Security
Orchestration Automation and Response) Recommandations stratégiques pour
une détection et réponses efficaces aux incidents cybersécurité
Transformer la menace cybersécurité en avantage compétitif :
recommandations straétgiques pour les dirigeants Construire votre
NextGen SOC pour alimenter le pilotage des systèmes d'information avec
les métriques adéquates

## Upcoming Event November 24th, 2023: DevSecOps Toolchain Transformation

### Program: DevSecOps Toolchain Transformation Hands-on

The DevSecOps Mindset and Salient Features

Shared Objectives Prioritizing Security Auomation Operational Insights
and Threat Intelligence Holistic Security Proactive Threat Monitoring
Security-as-a-Code Infrastructure-as-a-Code Improved Collaboration
Developers as Security Proponents Continuous Monitoring and Auditing
Defined Incident Response Here are some actions you can take to upgrade
your DevOps toolchain into a DevSecOps toolchain:

1.  Learn From Others in the DevOps and DevSecOps Communities Look to
    the DevOps community to help close your critical knowledge gaps.

2.  Start With Your Container Security The first step to building out
    the security of your DevOps toolchain starts with your container
    security.

3.  Institute Continuous Compliance DevSecOps is a platform for
    continuous compliance to protect your software supply chains against
    vulnerable packages and vulnerable configurations.

4.  Double Down on Automation While you may have already been
    experimenting with automation during your DevOps phase, it only
    becomes more integral once you throw the switch in by going
    DevSecOps. Go into your DevOps to DevSecOps transformation with an
    automation strategy that focuses on automating common developer and
    sysadmin tasks.

5.  Improve Your Monitoring and Analytics Building out a DevSecOps
    toolchain takes your monitoring and analytics options to a new
    level. Consider the fact that you should already collect and publish
    data from your toolchain and deliver reports to your project
    managers, developers, QA testers, and stakeholders outside your
    team. Commonly, DevOps reporting is still a work in progress for
    organizations. Use the introduction of new security tools into your
    toolchain as a chance to offer more granular and real-time security
    reporting into all parts of your DevSecOps toolchain.

6.  Implement Accessibility Assurance Depending on your organization's
    definition of compliance, the option is there to add accessibility
    compliance or Section 508 to your DevSecOps toolchain.

This hands-on training is reserver for 70% professional and 30%
students.

Mandatory:

General Conditions in order to validate your participation to this
event:

1.  Student must send University/Student ID, otherwise registration will
    be rejected.

2.Professional must register company emails, otherwise registration will
be rejected.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-6}

Registration only via EventBrite. We don't accept answer via meetup.

Please indicate your firstname, lastname, company name, a valid business
email or school email (email like gmai, free, hotmail, outlook, etc are
not accepted and registration will be cancelled).

Please register here:
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/billets-devsecops-toolchain-transformation-374188276207

### Event Mode: online event and physical

Register to receive the Link.

## Paset Event May 18th, 2023: DevSecOps Toolchain Transformation

### Program: DevSecOps Toolchain Transformation Hands-on

La chapitre OWASP Maroc dans les locaux du Golf Royal de Casablanca une
session de sensibilisation :

Les règles d'utilisation d'Internet Les dangers d'Internet Le
cyberharcèlement L'utilisation d'une messagerie Utilisation sécurisé les
blogs Utilisation sécurisé des réseaux sociaux Pourquoi sécuriser au
maximum le mot de passe de vos comptes: email, réseau sociaux, etc ?
Choisir un mot de passe robuste à partir d'une phrase C'est quoi le
PasswordLess ?

## Paset Event September 23th, 2023: Design Enterprise Security Architecture with TOGAF and SABSA

### Program: Design Enterprise Security Architecture with TOGAF and SABSA

TOGAF and SABSA work together. SABSA is the world's leading security
architecture framework. TOGAF is a modular enterprise architecture
framework that is easily extensible to use domain best-practice. With
the SABSA Institute and The Open Group Architecture Forum I created a
methodlogy to use the both framework to design Secure Architecture and
develop better enterprise architecture with best practice security
architecture.

During this talk I will show you:

- How think of TOGAF plus SABSA.
- Think enterprise architecture with world-class risk and security.

Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Initialisms Short Form Full Form BOSS
Business Operation Support Services CSA Cloud Security Alliance EA
Enterprise Architecture SABSA Sherwood Applied Business Security
Architecture

## Paset Event April 12th 2022: OWASP ASVS, OWASP SKF with DGSSI

### ASVS cookbook with Josh GROSSMAN and Glenn Ten Cate (OWASP)

### Program

Dans le cadre du renforcement de la sécurité applicative, et dans le
continuité des actions menées lors du séminaire, organisé pendant le
mois de novembre 2021, se rapportant à l'évaluation de la maturité de la
sécurité du cycle de vie du développement logiciel (SDLC), la Direction
Générale de la Sécurité des Systèmes d'Information (DGSSI) organise, le
12 avril 2022, une action de sensibilisation qui se déroulera en ligne.

Cette action a pour objectif de présenter, par des experts de l'OWASP,
le référentiel de vérification de la sécurité logicielle (document en
pièce jointe) ainsi que le cadre de sécurité applicative, Framework
Security Knowledge, (SKF).

Lors de cette journée, il sera aussi procédé à la présentation du modèle
de test, en particulier de la sécurité, selon le référentiel ISTQB.

A cet effet, je vous invite à utiliser le lien ci-après pour compléter
la procédure d'enregistrement.

https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/3345299733466486544

Veuillez trouver ci-après l'agenda détaillé de cette journée de
sensibilisation.

Programme Intervention De 09:30 à 09:45 Mot d'ouverture DGSSI

De 09:45 à 10:00 Mot d'ouverture ADD

De 10:00 à 11:00 La qualité et le test des logiciels selon le CMTL
Salima MISSOUR, Vice-présidente du CMTL Les principes fondamentaux du
test des logiciels Le test logiciel, un véritable métier en pleine
croissance. Q/R\
De 11:00 à 12:00 Présentation du référentiel de vérification de la
sécurité des applications Josh GROSSMAN Q/R & De 12:00 à 12:45 Framework
SKF Glenn TEN CATE Q/R Experts OWASP

Pause (de 12:45 à 13:15)

De 13:15 à 14:00 Le test de la sécurité selon l'ISTQB : Alain RIBAULT
Les objectifs du test de la sécurité ; Expert ISTQB & membre du CFTL Le
processus général du test de la sécurité ;\
Les facteurs humains. Q/R

De 14:00 à 14:10 Mot de clôture. DGSSI

CMTL : Comité marocain des Tests Logiciels. SKF : Security Knowledge
Framework ISTQB : International Software Testing Qualifications Board.
CFTL : Comité français des Tests Logiciels.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-7}

A cet effet, je vous invite à utiliser le lien ci-après pour compléter
la procédure d'enregistrement.

https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/3345299733466486544

### Event Mode: online event

Register to receive the Link.

## Past Event 04 Setptember 2021 - DevSecOps Detox - Session 2

### Hand-on during 2 hours slides and demo. {#hand-on-during-2-hours-slides-and-demo}

### Program

Nous allons discuter durant ce webinar les trois piliers fondamentaux de
la méthodologie DevSecOps sont donc :

1.  L'automatisation : tout comme DevOps tourne autour de
    l'automatisation lors des phases de build, le concept DevSecOps se
    concentre sur l'automatisation de la sécurité dans ces phases. Il
    s'agit d'industrialiser les vérifications de sécurité en éliminant
    le besoin de le faire manuellement au niveau de chaque développeur.
2.  Le correspondant sécurité dans l'équipe de développeurs que l'on
    peut appeler aussi "champion de la sécurité".
3.  L'outillage : les différentes approches du DevSecOps peuvent être
    outillées (tests, gestion de la confidentialité, modélisation des
    menaces, équipe de build).

Une démonstration d'une chaine DevSecOps sera faite durant ce webinar.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-8}

Merci de s'inscire via ce lien Meetup

https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Morocco-OWASP-Meetup-Group/events/277376480/

### Event Mode: online via Google Meet

https://meet.google.com/ukh-nkht-hoi

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Past Event 15 Mai 2021 - DevSecOps Detox en collaboration avec OpenLAB Abidjan

### Hand-on during 2 hours slides and demo. {#hand-on-during-2-hours-slides-and-demo-1}

### Program

Nous allons discuter durant ce webinar les trois piliers fondamentaux de
la méthodologie DevSecOps sont donc :

1.  L'automatisation : tout comme DevOps tourne autour de
    l'automatisation lors des phases de build, le concept DevSecOps se
    concentre sur l'automatisation de la sécurité dans ces phases. Il
    s'agit d'industrialiser les vérifications de sécurité en éliminant
    le besoin de le faire manuellement au niveau de chaque développeur.
2.  Le correspondant sécurité dans l'équipe de développeurs que l'on
    peut appeler aussi "champion de la sécurité".
3.  L'outillage : les différentes approches du DevSecOps peuvent être
    outillées (tests, gestion de la confidentialité, modélisation des
    menaces, équipe de build).

Une démonstration d'une chaine DevSecOps sera faite durant ce webinar.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-9}

Merci de s'inscire via ce lien Meetup

https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Morocco-OWASP-Meetup-Group/events/277376480/

### Event Mode: online via Google Meet

https://meet.google.com/ukh-nkht-hoi

## Upcoming Event 8th, May 2021 at 10am Morocco Time {#upcoming-event-8th-may--2021-at-10am-morocco-time}

### PHP Secure Coding Section 2: Web Security Foundations

### Date: Saturday 08, April 2021

### Hand-on Session during 3 hours. {#hand-on-session-during-3-hours}

During 3 hours this session will teach how to secure code your web
application using PHP language. We will discuss the security features in
the PHP by using some framework like YII, and how this framework meet
secure coding standard for PHP.

### Program

Good security is vital to the health and success of any application.
Unfortunately, many developers cut corners when it comes to security,
either due to a lack of understanding or because implementation is too
much of a hurdle. To make your Yii powered application as secure as
possible, Yii has included several excellent and easy to use security
features.

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
1. Authentication
2. Authorization
3. Working with Passwords
4. Cryptography
5. Views security
6. Auth Clients
7. Best Practices
8. Trusted proxies and headers
```
:::
::::

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-10}

https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Morocco-OWASP-Meetup-Group/events/277376480/

### Download all materials here:

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/1W4HOlKGZBDUOeN-6VEkTTfWOEgPP5SyU

Attention: access allowed only to the attendees during the session.

### Event Mode: online

Link via Google Meet: https://meet.google.com/ukh-nkht-hoi

## Upcoming Event 5th, April 2021 - Secure Coding for PHP

During 3 hours this session will teach how to secure code your web
application using PHP language. We will discuss the security features in
the PHP by using some framework like YII https://www.yiiframework.com/,
and how this framework meet secure coding standard for PHP.

### Hand-on Session during 3 hours. {#hand-on-session-during-3-hours-1}

### Program

Good security is vital to the health and success of any application.
Unfortunately, many developers cut corners when it comes to security,
either due to a lack of understanding or because implementation is too
much of a hurdle. To make your Yii powered application as secure as
possible, Yii has included several excellent and easy to use security
features.

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
1. Authentication
2. Authorization
3. Working with Passwords
4. Cryptography
5. Views security
6. Auth Clients
7. Best Practices
8. Trusted proxies and headers
```
:::
::::

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-11}

https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Morocco-OWASP-Meetup-Group/events/277246393/

### Event Mode: online

Via Zoom. Link will be shared 1 hour before the event.

## Past Event December 2020 - Security issues in Blockchain and crypto currency

The blockchain is an incorruptible digital ledger of economic
transactions that can be programmed to record not just nancial
transactions but virtually everything of value. Picture a spreadsheet
that is duplicated thousands of times across a network of computers.

Then imagine that this network is designed to regularly update this
spreadsheet and you have a basic understanding of the blockchain.

Information held on a blockchain exists as a shared and continually
reconciled database. This way of using the network has many benets.

The blockchain database isn't stored in any single location, meaning the
records it keeps are truly public and easily veriable. No centralized
version of this information exists for a hacker to corrupt. Hosted by
millions of computers simultaneously, its data is accessible to anyone
on the internet.

### Architecture Talk during 2 hours. {#architecture-talk-during-2-hours}

### Program

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
 1. Blockchain: How its work
 2. Security Features of Blockchain
 3. How cryptocurrency Works
 4. What are miners and what is their role?
 5. Properties of Crypto currency
 6. Popular Cryptocurrencies
 7. Security issues in Blockchain
 8. Security issues in Cryptocurrencies
 9. Tips for cryptocurrency holders and crypto-investors
```
:::
::::

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-12}

Please contact me at azzeddine.ramrami(at)owasp.org

### Event Mode: online

Online link will be sent by email to subscribed person.

## Past Event January 2021 - Android and iOS Security and Hacking

### Hand-on during 1 full day. {#hand-on-during-1-full-day}

### Program

Program will published by the end of december 2020.

### Subscription (Free) {#subscription-free-13}

Subscription will published by the end of december 2020.

### Event Mode: online

Online link will be sent by email to subscribed person.

### Hands-on on Zero Trus Architecture for Ivoiry Coast CISO November 2020

#### Our Speaker - Azzeddine RAMRAMI

#### Architecture Session

During this session Azzedine RAMRAMI presented the Zero Trust
architecture to a panel of CISO at Ivoiry Coast country.

### Hands-on on IoT Security & Hacking for EHTP School/Casablanca in October 2020 {#hands-on-on-iot-security--hacking-for-ehtp-schoolcasablanca-in-october-2020}

#### Our Speaker - Azzeddine RAMRAMI

#### Hands-on Description

During this session attendees lean how to hack IoT by using real PLC and
Raspberry 4.

The following areas will presented:

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
 1. PLC programing and hacking
 2. IoT Architecture and Hacking y using Raspberry and different IoT scenarios
```
:::
::::

### Hands-on on Secure Programming & Secure Coding Standards for OWASP Tunisia {#hands-on-on-secure-programming--secure-coding-standards-for-owasp-tunisia}

[Take your Ticket
Here!!!](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/hands-on-on-secure-programming-secure-coding-standards-tickets-113083056466)

#### Our Speaker - Azzeddine RAMRAMI

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
- IBM Security - Senior Security & Network Architect
- OWASP Morocco Chapter
- OWASP AppSec Africa President
- Data & Application Security, Cogntive Security, IoT/OT/ICS/SCADA Security & SIEM
- Professor/instructor and an expert information security development with over 22 years of 
   experience in the security, secure coding, network and telecommunication arena.
- Certified Mile2 CPTE/CPTC/CDFE/CSWAE and EC-Council C|EH
```
:::
::::

#### Hands-on Description

Generally, it is much less expensive to build secure software than to
correct security issues after the software package has been completed,
not to mention the costs that may be associated with a security breach.
We will discuss how to embed security in the SDLC and how to design a
secure application architecture.

The following areas will presented:

:::: {.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge}
::: highlight
``` highlight
 1. Software Security and Risk Principles Overview
 2. Secure Coding Standards for Java, C/C++
 3. Secure Coding Practices Checklist
     - Input Validation
     - Output Encoding
     - Authentication and Password Management
     - Session Management
     - Access Control
     - Cryptographic Practices
     - Error Handling and Logging
     - Data Protection
     - Communication Security
     - System Configuration
     - Database Security
     - File Management
     - Memory Management
   4. General Coding Practices & Code Quality ### Past  Event : DevSecOps Training for EGE/Paris July 5, 2020 via GotoMeeting
```
:::
::::

### Past Event : Event at ENSIAS March 28/29, 2020 {#past--event--event-at-ensias-march-2829-2020}

- OWASP Morocco Chapter - DevSecOps training workshop\
  March 28/29, 2020
- When: Sunday 2pm, Saturday 9am
- Where:ENSIAS Rabat/Morocco
- Title:OWASP Morocco DevSecOps Workshop at MCSC 2020 ENSIAS
- Have a look at our full program, bring your laptop and join us!
  [Register
  here:](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-devsecops-workshop-day-at-mcsc-2020-at-ensias-on-2829-feb-2020-tickets-96421135211?utm-medium=discovery&utm-campaign=social&utm-content=attendeeshare&aff=escb&utm-source=cp&utm-term=listing)

### Past Event : Event at EHTP/Casablanca Feb 5, 2020 {#past--event--event-at-ehtpcasablanca-feb-5-2020}

- OWASP Morocco Chapter Meeting\
  February 5, 2020
- When: Wednesday, February 5th @ 08:00AM - 6:00PM
- Where:EHTP Casablanca/Morocco
- Title:OWASP Morocco Cyber Security dat at EHTP
- Have a look at our full program and join us! ![Full
  Program](assets/images/Owsap.Ehtp.05022020-Final-Program.png)

[back to top](#Welcome)

[2020](#2020) [2019](#2019) [2018](#2018)

### 2019 {#2019}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### OWASP Morocco Chapter Meeting

**When:** OWASP Training Day UM6P, 27 June 2019

**Where:** OWASP Training Day at Mohammed VI Polytechnic University on
June 27th, 2019 in Ben Guerir Marrakech/Morocco

A full training day at UP6P Bengruir Morocco.

**Program:** Workshop Outline: Two sessions

- Introduction à l'OWASP: 09h00 - 09h30
- L'état de l'art de la sécurité IoT 09h30 - 10h30
- Secure Coding Java & .NET: 11h00 - 18h00

**Program:**

- Abdessalam JAY
- Othmane TAMAGARTI
- Azzeddine RAMRAMI

**Sponsors:** Sponsor of this event: Adam Ridson
https://www.adamridson.com/

[Back to Top](#past-events)

### OWASP Morocco Chapter Training Day at ONCF, February 15, 2019

**When:** Friday, February 15th, 9:00 al - 5:00 pm

**Where:** ONCF Club, Rabat/Morocco

**Programs:** OWASP Training Day at ONCF, 15th February 2019 in
Rabat/Morocco Azzeddine RAMRAMI will run a one full day developper
training on OWASP, on 15th February 2019.

OWASP Morocco Chapter members running this session:

Course Outline:

- Introductions
- Agenda
- Secure Development Lifecycle (SDLC)
- Lab: Threat Modeling
- Principles of Secure Code
- Authentication & Authorization
- Lab: Access Control
- Mini-Lab: Weak Session Identifiers
- Session Management
- Lab: SQL Injection
- Lab: Cross-Site Scripting
- Input Validation
- Lab: SQL Injection Patching
- Lab: Cross-Site Scripting Patching
- Proper Encryption
- Mini-Lab: Hash Breaking
- Logic Flaws
- Lab: Logic Flaw Exploitation

**Speakers:**

- Azzeddine RAMRAMI
- Abdessamad TEMMAR
- Abdessalam EL JAY

**Sponsors:** Munisys

Sponsor of this event: MUNISYS (http://www.munisys.net.ma/)

[Back to Top](#past-events)

### 2018 {#2018}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### OWASP AppSec Morocco & Africa 2018 {#owasp-appsec-morocco--africa-2018}

**Where:** November 15-16, 2018 **When:** Hotel Val d'Anfa,
Casablanca/Morocco

Welcome to the second edition of OWASP AppSec Morocco and Africa in
Casablanca, Hotel Val d'Anfa on November 15-16, 2018.

**Program:** See here https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/agenda/

At AppSec Morocco & Africa you can connect with over 250 security
professionals in our sponsor hall. Our floor plan is designed to allow
you to engage with speakers and attendees.

Thank you to the Sponsors of Appsec Morocco & Africa 2018 :

**Speakers**: see here

https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/speakers/

**Sponsors**: https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/sponsors/

Here the final list of our speakers from differents countries including
Africa (Morocco and Algerie), Canada, Europe and Asia.

[Back to Top](#past-events)
:::::::::::::::

::: {#sec-pasteventsarchive .section .page-body .tab-hidden}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

![AppSec Morocco 2018](assets/images/AppSec-MA-2018.png)
![Mosquee_Hassan_II](assets/images/Mosquee_Hassan_II.png)

# OWASP Morocco Presentation

Scope of the board is to discuss and approve local activities, meetings
and plans.

## Contacts et Propositions de Présentations/Contributions

- [Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#d293a8a8b7b6b6bbbcb7fc80939f80939f9b8efab3a68efbbda5b3a1a2fcbda0b5)
  et [Tarik EL
  AOUADI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#1e6a7f6c7775307b727f716b7f7a7742367f6a423771697f6d6e30716c79)
  sont à votre disposition si vous souhaitez des informations sur
  l'OWASP ainsi que sur la Sécurité des Applications Web.

Entreprises, Individuels, Monde Académique, Sponsors, Supports, tout le
monde est bienvenu à l'OWASP.

Pour les Entreprises souhaitant adhérer à l'OWASP, le montant de
l'adhésion annuelle de \$5000 US (dont 40% est reversé au Chapitre de
votre choix) est 100% déductible!

Les fonds collectés servent à organiser les meetings du Chapitre
Marocain, mais aussi et surtout à construire et organiser avec vous une
approche spécifique en fonction de vos souhaits (sessions de
sensibilisation, meetings internes, interventions de Speakers, etc.).
Tout cela peut être discuté avec le Chapitre Marocain et acté
conjointement avec vous si vous souhaitez adhérer à l'OWASP.

N'hésitez pas à nous solliciter si vous souhaitez discuter d'un sujet
particulier, ou si vous souhaitez effectuer une présentation lors d'un
meeting du Chapitre Marocain.

Amis de la Presse écrite et du Multimédia, n'hésitez pas à faire appel à
nous si vous souhaitez notre concours pour vos articles et reportages,
vous êtes les bienvenus et nous en serions honorés. Nous avons nous
aussi besoin de vous.

Moi et le board du Chapitre Marocain restons modestes dans notre
approche, mais nous souhaitons vraiment que le Chapitre OWASP Maroc
devienne un de vos contacts de référence.

# Meetings 2019

## February 2019 Q1/2019

### OWASP Training Day at ONCF, 15th February 2019 in Rabat/Morocco

Azzeddine RAMRAMI will run a one full day developper training on OWASP,
on 15th February 2019.

OWASP Morocco Chapter members running this session:

Azzeddine RAMRAMI

Abdessamad TEMMAR

Abdessalam EL JAY

**Location**: ONCF Club

**City**: Rabat

**Country**: Morocco

**Course Outline:**

- 1)        Introductions
- 2)        Agenda
- 3)        Secure Development Lifecycle (SDLC)
- 4)        Lab: Threat Modeling
- 5)        Principles of Secure Code
- 6)        Authentication & Authorization
- 7)        Lab: Access Control
- 8)        Mini-Lab: Weak Session Identifiers
- 9)        Session Management
- 10)      Lab: SQL Injection
- 11)      Lab: Cross-Site Scripting
- 12)      Input Validation
- 13)      Lab: SQL Injection Patching
- 14)      Lab: Cross-Site Scripting Patching
- 15)      Proper Encryption
- 16)      Mini-Lab: Hash Breaking
- 17)      Logic Flaws
- 18)      Lab: Logic Flaw Exploitation
- Addition Labs:
- 19)      Other Attacks
- 20)      Mini-Lab: XML Attacks
- 21)      Security Hygiene
- 22)      Final Lab: Hacking Contest

**Sponsor of this event:** MUNISYS (http://www.munisys.net.ma/)

## June 2019 Q2/2019

### OWASP Training Day at Mohammed VI Polytechnic University on June 27th, 2019 in Ben Guerir Marrakech/Morocco {#owasp-training-day-at-mohammed-vi-polytechnic-universityon-june-27th-2019-in-ben-guerir-marrakechmorocco}

Azzeddine RAMRAMI with OWASP Morocco Team will run one full day
developper training on workshop OWASP, on 27th June 2019.

This session will run by Azzeddine RAMRAMI, Abdessalam ELJAI and Othmane
TAGAMART.

**Location**: Universite Mohamed VI Bengruir

**City**: Ben Guerir / UM6P

AdresseMohammed VI Polytechnic University 

Lot 660, Hay Moulay Rachid Ben Guerir, 43150, Morocco

**Country**: Morocco

**Workshop Outline: Two sessions**

- Introduction à l'OWASP: Abdessalam JAY                               
                                                                       
            09h00 - 09h30 
- L'état de l'art de la sécurité IoT: Othmane TAMAGARTI                 
                                                                       
      09h30 - 10h30  
- Pause café                                                           
                                                                       
                                 10h30 - 11h00 
- Secure Coding Java & .NET with OWASP TOP 10 2017 Part 1: Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI & Othmane TAMAGART   11h00 - 13h00 
- Pause déjeuner                                                       
                                                                       
                              13h00 - 14h00 
- Secure Coding Java & .NET with OWASP TOP 10 2017 Part 2: Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI & Othmane TAMAGART   14h00 - 16h00   
- Pause café                                                           
                                                                       
                                 16h00 - 16h30 
- Secure Coding Java & .NET with OWASP TOP 10 2017 Part 3: Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI & Othmane TAMAGART   16h30 - 18h00  

\*\*Contact to subscription: [Azzeddine
RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#234259594647474a4d460d51424e51424e4a7f0b42577f0a4c544250530d4c5144)
\*\*[](Morocco.html "wikilink")<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Morocco#tab=Meetings_2019>

**Sponsor of this event:** [Adam Ridson](https://www.adamridson.com/)

# Past Meeting Meetings 2018

### Welcome to the second edition of OWASP AppSec Morocco and Africa in Casablanca, Hotel Val d'Anfa on November 15-16, 2018. {#welcome-to-the-second-edition-of-owasp-appsec-morocco-and-africa-in-casablanca-hotel-val-danfa-on-november-15-16-2018}

<https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/agenda/>

At AppSec Morocco & Africa you can connect with over 250 security
professionals in our sponsor hall. Our floor plan is designed to allow
you to engage with speakers and attendees.

Thank you to the Sponsors of Appsec Morocco & Africa 2018 :

<https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/sponsors/>

Here the final list of our speakers from differents countries including
Africa (Morocco and Algerie), Canada, Europe and Asia.

<https://2018.appsecmorocco.org/speakers/>

# Meetings 2017

## OWASP AppSec Africa 2017

## OWASP participe à l'évènement MCSC 2017 à l'ENSIAS Rabat

# Meetings 2016

## OWASP participe à l'évènement MCSC 2016 à l'ENSIAS Rabat/Maroc le 14 et 15 mai 2016

J'ai le plaisir que l'OWASP Morocco Chapter participe en tant que
partenaire sécurité à l'évènement MCSC 2016 à l'ENSIAS Rabat le week-end
du 14 au 15 mai 2015:

moroccancybersecuritychallenge.com/mcsc-2016

Je vous informe que l'OWASP intervient avec les thèmes suivants:

1\. Une conference sur IOT SECURITY avec Mlle.Sanae, PhD Studnet ENSA
Tétouan/OWASP Morocco Team 2. Un hands-on de 3h sur comment sécuriser
une application web les outils opensource, Azzeddine RAMRAMI, OWASP
Leader/IBM Security Senior Architect

Les inscriptions sont disponibles via le lien suivant:

<https://goo.gl/mZuX1E>

N'hésitez pas donc à s'inscrire et à inviter toute personne intéressée.

Notre sponsor pour cet events est [ADAM
RIDSON](http://www.adamridson.com/)

[http://www.adamridson.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/logo.001-1024x400.png](../../www.adamridson.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/11/logo.001-1024x400.png)

# Events Sponsors

**We need your help, Call for additional sponsors** We need sponsors for
meeting room, flight cost, hotel accomodations. Please contact the
Chapter Leader on how to apply.

# Chapter Meeting

Volonteer are encouraged to join OWASP Morocco Chapter. Please contact
the Chapter Leader [Azzeddine
RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#fd9c8787989999949398d38f9c908f9c9094a1d59c89a1d4928a9c8e8dd3928f9a)

# OWASP Moroco Local News

2015-03-14 : **VINCI school at Rabat provide as with a large room for
our seminars. Thanks to the President of VINCI Mr Amine RACHDI**

2014-06-22 : **MoroccoJUG (Morocco Java User Group) and OWASP Morocco
organised a new Java Secure Coding session at Centre Eclipse Casablanca.
See <http://www.meetup.com/MoroccoJUG/>**

2012-05-02 : **VINCI school at Rabat provide as with a large room for
our seminars. Thanks to the President of VINCI Mr Amine RACHDI**

2010-12-26 : INSEC (Information Security Club)is planing on 16th of
April 2011 the first edition of "Moroccan Cyber Security Challenge". A
challenge that will gather teams from 14 engineering schools in Morocco
interested to information security and assurance. OWASP will be present
in this events.

2010-12-24 : First meeting preparation in Morocco in Rabat or Casablanca

2010-12-24 : Modification of Morocco Local Chapter Wiki

2010-12-24 : Azzeddine RAMRAMI is co-leader for Morocco local chapter.
Welcome!

# OWASP Morocco past meetings

## OWASP Training Day : Web Application Security Course - Secure Coding Techniques - March 28^th^, 2013 - at Rabat/Morocco {#owasp-training-day--web-application-security-course---secure-coding-techniques---march-28th-2013---at-rabatmorocco}

- **MAIN PRESENTERS:** Azzeddine RAMRAMI: OWASP Leader
- **ABSTRACT:** During this training class Azzeddine RAMRAMI and two
  other OWASP Volunteers will present a Web Application Security and
  Secure Coding based on Java and PHP Security, .NET Security and Web
  2.0 Botnets.
- '\''WHEN: '\''March 28^th^, 2013
- **WHERE:** VINCI Ecole Supérieure Rabat/Morocco see [VINCI Ecole
  Supérieure Rabat](http://www.vinci.ma/)

\*' 10,Rue Al Yamama (Aproximité de la gare Rabat-Ville), Rabat - Tél:
05 37 70 69 05 - E-mail:
[\[email protected\]](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html){.__cf_email__
cfemail="2b5d424548426b5d42454842054a4805464a"} \*'

- **REGISTRATION:**

**At AXEL TELECOM ([Axel
Telecom](http://www.axeltelecom.fr/homepage/owasp-training-day))** **or
at VINCI ([VINCI Ecole Supérieure](http://www.vinci.ma/))**

- **FEES:** Course is free of charge. Nb of seat limited to 25 per class
- **SPONSORS:** Sponsor are welcome to support this event, please
  contact the Chapter Leader [Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#690813130c0d0d00070c471b08041b0804003541081d3540061e081a1947061b0e)
- **AGENDA:** OWASP Seminars
- **-----------------------------------------------**
- **Opening Session :** OWASP Presentation and Introduction - 9:30am to
  10am - Seat : No Limit
- **Session 1:** Secure Coding Technique - Technical Course - 10am to
  5pm - Seat : 25
- **Session 2:** Resilient C\\&C Botnets Using Web 2.0 Technologies -
  Presentation, PoC and Demo - 10am to 5pm - Seat : 25
- **Session 3:** Secure Coding Cryptograhy Crash Course - Theory 10am à
  12am - Seat : 25
- **Session 3:** Secure Coding Cryptograhy Crash Course - Hands-On 2pm à
  5pm - Seat : 25
- **-----------------------------------------------**
- **Optional:** Please BYOD if you want to participate to PoC, Hands-on
  and Demo

## OWASP Training Day : Web Application Security Course - Secure Coding Techniques - March 28^th^, 2013 - at Rabat/Morocco {#owasp-training-day--web-application-security-course---secure-coding-techniques---march-28th-2013---at-rabatmorocco-1}

- **MAIN PRESENTERS:** Azzeddine RAMRAMI: OWASP Leader
- **ABSTRACT:** During this training class Azzeddine RAMRAMI and two
  other OWASP Volunteers will present a Web Application Security and
  Secure Coding based on Java and PHP Security, .NET Security and Web
  2.0 Botnets.
- '\''WHEN: '\''March 28^th^, 2013
- **WHERE:** VINCI Ecole Supérieure Rabat/Morocco see [VINCI Ecole
  Supérieure Rabat](http://www.vinci.ma/)

\*' 10,Rue Al Yamama (Aproximité de la gare Rabat-Ville), Rabat - Tél:
05 37 70 69 05 - E-mail:
[\[email protected\]](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html){.__cf_email__
cfemail="0a7c636469634a7c63646963246b6924676b"} \*'

- **REGISTRATION:**

**At AXEL TELECOM ([Axel
Telecom](http://www.axeltelecom.fr/homepage/owasp-training-day))** **or
at VINCI ([VINCI Ecole Supérieure](http://www.vinci.ma/))**

- **FEES:** Course is free of charge. Nb of seat limited to 25 per class
- **SPONSORS:** Sponsor are welcome to support this event, please
  contact the Chapter Leader [Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#36574c4c5352525f58531844575b44575b5f6a1e57426a1f594157454618594451)
- **AGENDA:** OWASP Seminars
- **-----------------------------------------------**
- **Opening Session :** OWASP Presentation and Introduction - 9:30am to
  10am - Seat : No Limit
- **Session 1:** Secure Coding Technique - Technical Course - 10am to
  5pm - Seat : 25
- **Session 2:** Resilient C\\&C Botnets Using Web 2.0 Technologies -
  Presentation, PoC and Demo - 10am to 5pm - Seat : 25
- **Session 3:** Secure Coding Cryptograhy Crash Course - Theory 10am à
  12am - Seat : 25
- **Session 3:** Secure Coding Cryptograhy Crash Course - Hands-On 2pm à
  5pm - Seat : 25
- **-----------------------------------------------**
- **Optional:** Please BYOD if you want to participate to PoC, Hands-on
  and Demo

## Web Application Security Seminar - May 18^th^, 2012 - at VINCI School Rabat/Morocco

- **MAIN PRESENTERS:** Azzeddine RAMRAMI: OWASP Leader, Hamza WARAKI:
  Pôle Sécurité PenTest OWASP Morocco, Tarif EL AOUADI from Lexi and
  Intissar from VINCI
- **ABSTRACT:** During this seminars Azzeddine RAMRAMI will present a
  complete Architecture Security Framework to implement Web Application
  Security the IT landscape. Hamza WARAKI will present how to conduct an
  OWASP Web Application PenTesting. OWASP activity and spirit will be
  presented in this event.
- '\''WHEN: '\''May 18^th^, 2012
- **WHERE:** VINCI Ecole Supérieure Rabat/Morocco see [VINCI Ecole
  Supérieure Rabat](http://www.vinci.ma/)

\*' 10,Rue Al Yamama (Aproximité de la gare Rabat-Ville), Rabat - Tél:
05 37 70 69 05 - E-mail:
[\[email protected\]](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html){.__cf_email__
cfemail="26504f48454f66504f48454f084745084b47"} \*'

- **REGISTRATION:**

**At AXEL TELECOM ([Axel
Telecom](http://www.axeltelecom.fr/index.php/ressources/seminaire-owsap))**
**or at VINCI ([VINCI Ecole Supérieure](http://www.vinci.ma/))**

- **PROGRAM:**

09:00-09:30 Welcome 09:30-09:45 OWASP Presentation ( Azzeddine RAMRAMI )
09:45-10:00 Security Awarnasse ( Tarik EL AOUADI ) 10:00-10:30 OSSTMM
v3.0 a PenTest Methodlogy - Overview ( Intissar EL MEZROUI ) 10:30-10:45
PAUSE 10:45-11:30 How to conduct a Web Application Pen Testing ( Hamza
WARRAKI) 11:30-12:00 OWASP WebGoat & Attack Example (A virtual Hacking
Environnement) (Nawfal Makdad ) 12:00-14:30 PRIERE DE VENDREDI
14:30-15:30 OWASP WebGoat & Attack Example (A virtual Hacking
Environnement) (Nawfal Makdad ) 15:30-16:15 Smartphone Security (Tarik
EL OUADI) 16:15-16:30 PAUSE 16:30-17:00 Smartphone Security (Tarik EL
AOUADI) 17:00-17:45 Writing Secure Code : Java Principles ( Azzeddine
RAMRAMI ) 17:45-18:00 Questions & Answers

- **Event Flyer :** \![\](OWASP_Seminar_Flyer-May_2012.pdf
  \"File:OWASP_Seminar_Flyer-May_2012.pdf\") This is the flyer of
  Morocco Chapter seminar. A short description of the seminar with the
  agenda and titles.

# Resources

## Morocco Cyber Security Event Virtual Machin image

To be posted after the first meeting

## Downloads

## Papers and Articles

**NOTOC**

[Category:Morocco](Category:Morocco "wikilink")
:::

::: {#sec-sponsorship .section .page-body .tab-hidden}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Sponsorship Opportunities with our Chapter

The Morocco OWASP Chapter can offer your company several sponsorship
opportunities. If you are interested in taking advantage of any of these
opportunities, please contact Azzeddine RAMRAMI
(azzeddine\[dot\]ramrami\[at\]owasp.org), the OWASP Morocco Chapter
Leader.

### Morocco Cyber Security Day

The Morocco OWASP Chapter organizes a quarterly Morocco Cyber Security
Day event along with selected school and companies. This event has
historically drawn around 100 of Morocco's security professionals and
expert for networking and more. Your sponsorship of this event includes
appetizers and drinks for the attendees. Feel free to pass out business
cards and network just like you would anywhere else. You'll find no
better opportunity to get your name in front of 100+ security
professionals for a free access.

### AppSec Morocco & Africa Security Conference (AppSec Africa) Sponsorship {#appsec-morocco--africa-security-conference-appsec-africa-sponsorship}

The AppSec Morocco & Africa is an OWASP conference held annually in
Morocco. It is a gathering of 250+ web app developers, security
engineers, mobile developers and information security professionals.
ApPSec is held in Morocco Casablanca or Rabar, where more Fortune 100
companies call home than any other state and it is held in Morocco which
is a hub for startups in Morocco. At AppSec Morocco & Africa, leaders at
these companies along with security architects and developers gather to
share cutting-edge ideas, initiatives, and technology advancements.

Being a non-profit organization, we rely mostly on sponsorships to help
us provide the funding to make AppSec Morocco & Africa successful.

[Become a AppSec Morocco & Africa
Sponsor](https://2020.appsecmorocco.org/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### OWASP Meeting Presenter Sponsorship

Although OWASP is a non-profit organization, we strive to provide our
members with the best presenters we possibly can. While the Austin area
has tons of security talent, sometimes it's worthwhile to reach beyond
our borders to pull in more awesome presenters. In exchange for covering
travel expenses for these presenters, our chapter will provide you with
5 minutes at the start of the meeting to introduce yourself and tell us
about the products or services that your company offers. You'll also
receive mention of being the presenter sponsor in all e-mail
communications about the meeting.
:::

::: {#sec-team .section .page-body .tab-hidden}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Chapter Team & Organization {#chapter-team--organization}

The chapter leadership board is as follows:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Chapter Leadership      Responsibilities        Person(s)
  Board Member Role                               
  ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  Chapter Leader          The central point of    Azzeddine RAMRAMI
                          contact for the Chapter 
                          and responsible to the  
                          OWASP Board. Serves as  
                          Chapter Leader and      
                          Chapter board chair.    

  Sponsor Coordinator     Serves as the primary   Azzeddine RAMRAMI\
                          liaison between the     Tarik EL OUADI\
                          Chapter and all         
                          sponsors, and solicits  
                          sponsors for the        
                          Chapter meetings, happy 
                          hours, AppSec Africa,   
                          and other events.       

  Speaker Coordinator     Seeks and schedules     Tarik EL OUADI
                          speakers for monthly    
                          Chapter meetings,       
                          AppSec Africa, and      
                          other events.           

  Education Coordinator   Coordinates all of the  Azzeddine RAMRAMI\
                          Chapter-sponsored       Tarik EL OUADI\
                          educational offerings,  
                          to include the weekly   
                          Study Group and OWASP   
                          training.               

  PR/Marketing            Provides marketing of   To be added
  Coordinator             AppSec Africa and other 
                          Chapter events.         

  Membership and Project  Coordinates activities  Azzeddine RAMRAMI &
  Coordinator             to grow individual and  Tarik EL OUADI
                          corporate memberships.  
                          Acts as project manager 
                          for events, such as     
                          AppSec Africa, tracking 
                          assigned tasks and      
                          reporting progress.     

  Events Committee        All of the Chapter      Chapter Leadership
                          Leadership Coordinators Coordinators
                          are responsible for     
                          coordinating aspects of 
                          events, including the   
                          annual Morocco          
                          Application Security    
                          Conference (AppSec      
                          Africa). The Chapter    
                          Leader acts as the      
                          committee chair.        

  Finance                 The Chapter Leader is   Azzeddine RAMRAMI -
                          designated as primary   Primary\
                          person responsible for  Tarik EL OUADI -
                          Chapter budget and      Secondary
                          Chapter expense         
                          approvals. The previous 
                          Chapter Leader is       
                          designated as secondary 
                          approver, who also will 
                          approve any expenses    
                          submitted by the        
                          Chapter Leader.         

  Advisory Board Members  Made up of previous     Azzeddine RAMRAMI\
                          Chapter leaders who     Tarik EL OUADI\
                          provide mentoring,      
                          coaching, and           
                          assistance to the board 
                          and contribute to the   
                          Chapter's success.      
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

[back to top](#Welcome)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
:::
:::::::::::::::::::::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: repo
:::

::: github-buttons
[Watch](https://github.com/owasp/www-chapter-morocco/subscription){.github-button
icon="octicon-eye" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Watch on GitHub"}
[Star](https://github.com/owasp/www-chapter-morocco){.github-button
icon="octicon-star" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Star on GitHub"}
:::

:::::: {.sidebar role="complementary"}
::: owasp-sidebar-top
**The OWASP^®^ Foundation** works to improve the security of software
through its community-led open source software projects, hundreds of
chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local
and global conferences.
:::

![AppSec Morocco 2018](assets/images/AppSec-MA-2018.png)
![Mosquee_Hassan_II](assets/images/Mosquee_Hassan_II.png)

### Morocco Information

- [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Morocco-OWASP-Meetup-Group/)
- [Join Morocco Mailing
  List](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/forum/#!forum/morocco-chapter)
- [Become a Member](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Membership)
- [Local Chapter
  Support](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Local_Chapter_Supporter)
- [Speaker Agreement](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Speaker_Agreement)
- [Code of
  Conduct](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Governance/Conference_Policies)

### AppSec Morocco & Africa Links {#appsec-morocco--africa-links}

- [AppSec Morocco & Africa website](https://2020.appsecmorocco.org/)
- [Facebook](https://fr-ca.facebook.com/events/OwaspMorocco/owasp-appsec-morocco-2018/1469026629874662/)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/owasp_morocco)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/owasp-morocco-and-africa/?viewAsMember=true)

### Leaders

- [Azzeddine
  RAMRAMI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#a7c6ddddc2c3c3cec9c289d5c6cad5c6cacee7c8d0c6d4d789c8d5c0)
- [Tarik
  ELAOUADI](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#235742514a480d464f424c5642474a634c544250530d4c5144)

:::: owasp-sidebar-bottom
### Upcoming OWASP Global Events

::: {#global-event-div}
:::
::::
::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
