::::::::::: main-wrapper
# OWASP Copenhagen {#owasp-copenhagen .page-title}

:::: {#main .page-body .tab role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="main-link" tabindex="0"}
::: {#sec-main .section .page-body}
The Copenhagen local chapter organizes quarterly events to promote OWASP
and information security in general.

## Events

In this page we keep track of all past events that we organized, and is
rarely updated. Go to
\[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/)\] to check
the latest events and subscribe to get the latest updates from our
chapter.

If interested in giving a talk, please send a message to [Alessandro
Bruni](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#acedc0c9dfdfcdc2c8dec382eeded9c2c5ecc3dbcddfdc82c3decb).

### Thursday, May 23, 2024

A night of honeypots and information flow security

#### Can we outsmart the adversaries? (Effective) Cyber Deception with Honeypots

In today's ever-evolving cyber threat landscape, traditional defence
mechanisms often struggle to keep pace with attacker ingenuity. Cyber
deception offers a proactive approach, utilizing traps and deceiving
tactics to lure attackers into controlled environments. Honeypots are
one of the prominent techniques of cyber deception that act as decoy
systems for capturing attacks and analyzing the adversary strategy. They
provide an early detection mechanism as well as a method for learning
how adversaries work and think. However, over the past years, several
researchers have shown methods for fingerprinting honeypots. This
significantly decreases the value of a honeypot; if an attacker can
recognize the existence of such a system, they can evade it. This talk
delves into the world of cyber deception, focusing on honeypots, their
efficacy, and some fingerprinting techniques from my research. We'll
explore how honeypots function and the contributions from The Honeynet
Project, a non-profit, open-source community.

**Speaker**: \[[Shreyas
Srinivas](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shreyas-srinivasa-ph-d-47038b13/overlay/contact-info/)\]
is Cyber Security Specialist at TERMA Group, Co-founder of Selene CTI
and previously Security Researcher at Aalborg University. He is
contributor to the [Honeynet project](https://www.honeynet.org/), a
non-profit dedicated to investigating the latest attacks and developing
open source security tools to improve Internet security.

#### Information-Flow Security for the Working Software Engineer

How does information flow through your software? Awareness of this gives
you a new perspective when writing software with security requirements;
it helps you avoid introducing information leaks into software, and
gives you a conceptual framework for reasoning about software security
in general.

In this talk, you will meet concepts like information leak, sources &
sinks, dependencies, side--channels, and flow policies. You will learn
to identify information flows in software, to express
application--specific security requirements as flow policies, and to
implement software that adheres to said flow policies.

Want to try this out? Then bring a laptop; right after the talks, I will
organize a little activity where you can tinker with
`ifc-ts`{.language-plaintext .highlighter-rouge} - my TypeScript library
for expressing flow policies. In `ifc-ts`{.language-plaintext
.highlighter-rouge}, flow policy checks are reduced to checks performed
by TypeScript's type checker. Thus, if your code type-checks, then your
code is guaranteed to adhere to the flow policies expressed therein.

**Speaker:** \[[Willard Rafnsson](https://www.willardthor.com/)\] is
Associate Professor at the IT University of Copenhagen (ITU). He is
member of the Center for Information Security and Trust (CISAT), as well
as the Programming, Logic and Semantics (PLS) and Software Quality
Research (SQUARE) groups.

### Tuesday, April 9, 2024 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/300007686/)\]

#### OSINTer

OSINTer is a new, digital platform tailored towards breezing through the
complexities involved in extracting strategic cyber threat intelligence
from news about cyber threats. Designed to streamline the traditionally
laborious process of manually tracing and compiling data, OSINTer offers
an automated, efficient means of identification, collection, and
tracking of the ever moving cyberthreat landscape. At this workshop we
will delve into the platform's journey from a spark of an idea to a
robust platform, currently serving 30.000 monthly users, and go over how
you can integrate it into your daily work, helping you stay on top of
the constant inflow of information.

**Speaker bio** Bertram Madsen and David Clayton are co-conspirators in
the realm of cybersecurity, with each specializing in different facets
of the industry to combat digital threats effectively. Bertram, a
proficient full-stack software developer, emphasizes open-source
development and community collaboration, manifesting in the creation of
a range of cybersecurity solutions. Most notably, he's responsible for
the development of OSINTer, a digital platform designed to ease
collection of strategic cyber threat intelligence (CTI), and in
collaboration with David, they are attempting to rethink how we do CTI.
David is an established leader within Denmark's cybersecurity landscape,
with a breadth of experience spanning various critical infrastructure
sectors, financial security and strategic leadership roles. He's
renowned for championing the SagaLabs concept, gaining TF-CSIRT
certification for his team, and providing exceptional insights as one of
only two official SIM3 auditors in Denmark.

#### Tracking down the killer

In the mid 1990's Rasmus Kierkegaard Kristiansen -- suspected of killing
and dismembering a business partner I Portugal -- managed to escape and
hide from authorities. After a longer period of intense investigation,
the trail was considered cold. In 2018, 25 years after the murder, the
unsolved case was still bugging the leading investigator at the time. He
teams up with a TV production company to give the investigation another
shot. As a base requirement for funding, Kristoffer Scavenius was tasked
with making a probable case that the murderer was in fact still alive.
After initial setbacks, Kristoffer was eventually able to make the case
that Rasmus Kierkegaard Kristiansen was still alive and well, living in
Sao Paolo, Brazil. The talk will discuss some of the OSINT approaches
used in this investigation.

**Speaker bio** Kristoffer Scavenius has worked in OSINT since 2013 and
has held positions as researcher/programmer in both government and the
private sector.

### Tuesday, January 23, 2024 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/297956007/)\]

#### Navigating the AI Labyrinth: Ethics, Security, and Best Practices

This talk offers a comprehensive exploration of Artificial Intelligence
(AI) from its historical evolution to the latest developments in AI
security and ethics. Key topics include:

- A Brief History of AI: A snapshot of the pivotal milestones in AI
  development.
- AI and Ethics: Understanding AI's business impact, ethical guidelines,
  best practices, and risk mitigation strategies.
- Robustness & Reliability of AI Code Generation: Addressing common
  misuse patterns and reliability metrics in AI systems.
- Artificial Intelligence Security Introduction: Analyzing historical AI
  failures to draw lessons and improve future applications.
- OWASP Top Ten for Large Language Models (LLMs): A deep dive into
  security considerations specific to LLMs, ranging from prompt
  injection to model theft.
- Threat Modeling AI Systems: Outlining methodologies to assess and
  mitigate AI-related threats.
- Hugging Face Open Source AI Tools: Exploring the utility and
  application of these tools in AI research.
- Differential Privacy and AI: Discussing the principles of differential
  privacy in the context of AI.
- NIST AI Risk Framework: An overview of NIST's guidelines for AI risk
  management.
- EU AI Act: Analysis and impact on AI development and use.

The talk aims to provide attendees with a nuanced understanding of AI's
ethical implications, security challenges, and practical approaches for
secure and responsible AI deployment.

#### AppSec Training

In the rapidly evolving realm of web development and application
security, the OWASP Top 10 remains a cornerstone document, acting as a
beacon for developers and security professionals alike. Reflecting a
broad-based consensus, it spotlights the most critical security risks
threatening web applications, thereby shaping the frontier of secure
coding techniques. With an ever-increasing emphasis on web-based
interactions, the significance of a deep understanding of these risks is
paramount. As developers etch lines of code giving life to web
applications, a firm grasp of secure coding practices becomes not merely
beneficial, but essential. This immersive and engaging presentation
seeks to equip attendees with a comprehensive understanding of the OWASP
Top Ten 2022 release, intending to empower developers with the knowledge
necessary to author secure, resilient software. As we navigate through
this labyrinth, we shall focus on in-depth discussions around:

- A01:2021-Broken Access Control
- A02:2021-Cryptographic Failure
- A03:2021-Injection
- A04:2021-Insecure Design
- A05:2021-Security Misconfiguration
- A06:2021-Vulnerable and Outdated Components
- A07:2021-Identification and Authentication Failures
- A08:2021-Software and Data Integrity Failures
- A09:2021-Security Logging and Monitoring Failure
- A10:2021-Server-Side Request Forgery

### Thursday, December 5, 2023 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/297344292/)\]

A night of Backdoors & Breaches with a virtual touch of John Strand

John Strand from Black Hills Information Security (BHIS) will join us
online and tell us about their incident response game; Backdoors &
Breaches, why you should use it and how it can help you raise awareness
among your peers

Afterwards Jon Bevers (also from BHIS) will show us how to play
Backdoors & Breaches. Jon will also join us online.

Jon is one of BHIS' European community ambassadors and travels Europe
from his home in Krakow, Poland. Jon was in Copenhagen recently as part
of BSides København where he also had the opportunity to talk to you
about Backboors & Breaches and he might even have given you a deck
already. If not, fear not as we will have plenty of decks to share with
you (and keep).

After the talk and demo from John and Jon it's time for pizza, drinks
and the opportunity to get some hands on experience and try to game for
yourself.

We hope to see you there!

### Thursday, September 21, 2023 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/296032478/)\]

A night of Blackteaming, Supply Chain Attacks and DEFCON CTF

#### Brian Harris: War Stories in Physical Penetration Testing

This is going to be a talk about the how the world continues to drive
full speed ahead on cyber security, but when it comes to physical
security we are often around 10-20 years behind. I will show some war
stories, techniques and the like to highlight just how vulnerable even
high security locations are when it comes to physical penetration
testing and that if you have no physical security, you have no cyber
security

Brian Harris has a long career of phyiscal pen testing (aka
blackteaming) behind him. He can truly do some amazing stuff that can
make you stop and wonder why we even bother having locks in the first
place, so obviously you don't want to miss this!

#### Mikkel Rømer: Infiltrating modern companies using Supply Chain Attacks

Case: Visual Studio Code Within this session we will be deep diving into
Supply Chain attacks. Supply chain attacks is a growing phenomenon,
which allows the adversary to infiltrate widely whilst gaining the trust
of legitimate software brands. This session will be technical. We will
be designing and implementing techniques throughout the presentation
until a final malware is ready for deployment. With a fully custom build
malware, targeting the modern text- and code editing application Visual
Studio Code, we will investigate its potential in terms of detection
within top class endpoint detect and response software such as
CrowdStrike Falcon and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. We will compare
the results with similar execution done via the notorious adversary
framework Cobalt Strike. Brace yourself for a thrilling journey through
the shadows of the digital realm, where adversaries roam undetected.

#### Adam Blatchley Hansen and William Ben Embarek: How to get 6th place at DEFCON CTF!

Every year the legendary hacker convention DEFCON hosts one of the
oldest and most competitive cybersecurity CTF competitions in the world.
This year, Kalmarunionen joined forces with teams from around the
nordics as NORSECODE, and travelled to the finals in Las Vegas, where
they took home a very impressive 6th place overall. In this talk Adam
and William will share the story of the teams road to qualifying for,
and competing at the DEFCON CTF finals. Introducing the world of "CTF"
hacking competitions from the perspective of a top competitive team, and
giving an inside look at what it takes to compete in international
hacking competitions at the very highest level. From organisational
strategies to interesting CTF challenges to internal team tooling,
they'll go over what it took for Norsecode to outperform many much
larger and more experienced teams, as well as some of the more
unexpected challenges they encountered along the way! Bio: Adam is a PhD
student studying Cryptography at Aarhus university, as well Head Coach
of Cyberlandsholdet and the current captain of Kalmarunionen and
Norsecode. William is a Pentester at TDC NET, as well as being a
longtime CTF player with Kalmarunionen he also handled onsite
infrastructure for Norsecode during DEFCON finals in Vegas.

### Wednesday, November 9, 2022 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/289468129/)\]

A night of collaboration, secure coding and -implementation

#### Klaus Agnoletti

Klaus will talk about how CrowdSec was able to enable the entire infosec
community to work together by detecting attempts to exploit a critical
0day, reporting them centrally, thereby enabling anyone to protect
themselves. CrowdSec is FOSS, collaborative threat intelligence and
threat mitigation. More info at https://crowdsec.net

#### Sébastien Gondron

Manual code inspection is a very effective measure in detecting and
preventing vulnerabilities and weaknesses. However, navigating
applications that can span millions of lines of code can be an arduous
task. Sébastien will share his experience and show how to make the best
of static analysis tools to facilitate and enhance the manual
inspection.

#### Linus Lagerhjelm

You have designed your application with security in mind but how do you
make sure that the implementation is actually following these
principles? Any sort of software system, even a simple one, usually
consists of a lot of moving parts in a lot of different layers and
getting everything correct can sometimes feel overwhelming. In this
presentation, Linus will present a 'checklist' with the most important
security controlls to apply in each layer of the application, from the
database to the user's client. When security is applied in every layer
of the application, the impact of a vulnerability will be much smaller.

### Tuesday, April 26, 2022 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/285064536/)\]

#### Email spoofing via marketing platforms, By Martin Sohn Christensen, Security Advisor at Improsec. {#email-spoofing-via-marketing-platforms-by-martin-sohn-christensen-security-advisor-at-improsec}

Many mechanisms exist to prevent email spoofing, such as SPF, DKIM, and
DMARC, but what if these were not sufficient even when configured
correctly? Martin will present known anti-spoofing mechanisms and share
his research on vulnerabilities in marketing platforms that can lead to
effective email spoofing for threat actors and red teams.

#### Kalmarunionen in a world of CTF's, By Morten Eskildsen, Kalmarunionen

Kalmarunionen is one of the top teams when talking cybersecurity and
Capture The Flag (CTF) competitions in the whole world. So in this talk
we will have a deep dive into what a CTF actually is and it's
applicability to the real world. The focus will be to look at it from
the viewpoint of Kalmarunionen, bringing you stories and hard-earned
learnings from some of the many competitions we have been a part of. We
will discuss overall tactics and shortcomings before finally diving into
how it can be applied in the real world.

### Thursday, February 17, 2022 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/283634757/)\]

#### Magnus Stubman, Senior Red Team Consultant at Mandiant and former security consultant at Improsec and F-Secure. {#magnus-stubman-senior-red-team-consultant-at-mandiant-and-former-security-consultant-at-improsec-and-f-secure}

Magnus started his career as a software developer and later turned his
attention to Cyber Security, specifically attack and penetration
testing, both digital and physical. Today Magnus specialize in Red
Teaming.

The 'Initial Access' phase is part of every intrusion, regardless if
it's a ransomware crew, nation state threat actor, or Red Team behind
the attack. In Magnus' talk, he will be deep diving into this specific
phase, and deliver a case study of a particular malware payload.

#### Linus Kvarnhammar, a cyber security professional and hacker for over 10 years. {#linus-kvarnhammar-a-cyber-security-professional-and-hacker-for-over-10-years}

Linus will share some juicy details from the Swedish TV series "Hackad".
He'll discuss how easy (or not) it is to hack private people, social
media personalities and companies.

After the two talks there will be time for us to hang out and catch-up
after two years captivity. Please be there at 17.00 / 5 PM. If it is
your first time at ITU, you can just follow the signs that will be put
up.

### Tuesday, October 5, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/280774265/)\]

#### Dimitry: Did you just assume your product is secure?

People tend to assume things. I know I do. It's perfectly normal, it's
how our brains evolved to work. Join me in exploring the role of
assumptions in our everyday life and how that impacts the security of
products we build. Or did I just assume that they do?.. Hmm.

#### Jonas: ImproHound Workshop: Protect your Domain Admins with tiering

It is not viable for system administrators and defenders in a large
Active Directory (AD) environment to ensure all AD objects have only the
exact permissions they need. It is too big of a task, why many
organizations are vulnerable to AD attacks due to too loose or wrong
permissions. At the same time, credential theft may lead to privileges
AD users having their password stolen when they login to compromised
computers. These vulnerabilities are chainable, why you in many AD
environments can escalate your rights to Domain Admin no matter what
computer or user you have.

### Thursday, July 1, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/278836329/)\]

Scale Security by Embracing Secure Defaults and Best-practices for
DevSecOps

#### Adam Berman : Scale Security by Embracing Secure Defaults {#adam-berman--scale-security-by-embracing-secure-defaults}

We're in the middle of a significant shift in how security teams operate
and prioritize their limited budget and person-time. Historically, as an
industry, we've focused on building tools to identify vulnerabilities.
While we've built impressive tools, these approaches have failed to
address the challenges of modern engineering teams. Specifically, these
tools often are too slow, require a prohibitive amount of security
engineer time and domain expertise to tune, overwhelm users with false
positives, and most importantly, do not ultimately raise a company's
security bar. But there's another way.

When done correctly, combining secure defaults and lightweight checks
that enforce invariants (properties that must always hold),
organizations can solve classes of vulnerabilities by construction,
preventing bug whack-a-mole. In this talk, we'll present a practical
step-by-step methodology for:

- Choosing what to focus your AppSec resources on
- How to combine secure defaults + lightweight invariant enforcement to
  eradicate entire vulnerability classes
- How to integrate continuous code scanning into your CI/CD processes in
  a way that's fast, high signal, and low friction for developers
- How to use an open source, lightweight security linting tool to find
  bugs and anti-patterns specific to your company

#### Martin Clausen : Best-practices for DevSecOps {#martin-clausen--best-practices-for-devsecops}

The presentation will show best-practices for DevSecOps (i.e. security
part) and includes a case study about supply chain controls related to
the Solarwinds incident.

### Thursday, May 20, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/owasp-copenhagen-chapter/events/277996588/)\]

#### Per Thorsheim: "How I hacked the largest bank in Norway using a 1-page paper form"

We are so lucky that Per has chosen to premier his latest talk for us
here at OWASP Copenhagen. So come join us for this. Per is a fantastic
storyteller :-)

Back in 2019-2020 banks were running a campaign saying you should never
share your BankID with anyone. Never give your OTP or password to
anyone. Use a "power of attorney" (Danish: Fuldmagt) to give another
person access to your bank account instead, to act on your behalf if
needed. So Per Thorsheim got curious and started to investigate with a
few friends. This is the story on how they found a way to gain access to
probably any personal account at the largest bank in Norway, using a
1-page paper form from the bank itself.

This is not a technical talk, but a talk about UX, design & process
flaws, and responsible disclosure.

Could this be possible with your bank?

#### Stu: Why You Should Build a Community!

Stu discusses why community is important for fostering collaboration,
forming important connections, mentoring, and the great things that can
happen from this.

Stu shares his experience of building an infosec community The Many Hats
Club, the highs and lows, but ultimately why this is something we should
all strive to do. The talk will cover the following:

- Why communities are vital in infosec
- How to start out
- Platforms
- Pitfalls and things to avoid (from my many mistakes)
- Mentoring
- Key achievements - 2 x cons, CTF's, Podcasts, community projects,
  research, responsible disclosures etc.
- Mods/Admins, COC etc things you cannot live without.
- Why you should all build a community right now!
- Q&A

### Thursday, April 29, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/277670961/)\]

POST-QUANTUM DIGITAL SIGNATURES

Sahana Sridhar: https://www.linkedin.com/in/sahsridh/

Former IBM Test Specialist and Master of Science from Norwegian
University of Science and Technology (NTNU). Sahana will enlighten you
on the findings of her master thesis on post-quantum digital signatures
based on identification schemes.

THE FAILURES OF NEMID AND THE THREAT OF QUANTUM COMPUTERS

Lars Embøll Nielsen: https://www.linkedin.com/in/qkd/

Lars will take you on a journey through the failures of NemID, the legal
landscape of digital signatures in EU and why Quantum Computers can be a
threat to the way we currently keep digital signatures secure.

AS ALWAYS.... ... you will have the opportunity to ask questions for the
participants

### Thursday, March 25, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/276419652/)\]

DISCOUNT PHISH BURN BETTER and USER MODE API HOOKS AND BYPASSES

Note: THIS IS AN ONLINE EVENT! Link to stream will be released here
prior to the event.

THE SPEAKER

Magnus Stubman, Security Advisor at Improsec and former security
consultant at F-Secure and Zacco.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/magnusstubman/

Magnus started his career as a software developer and later turned his
attention to Cyber Security, specifically attack and penetration
testing, both digital and physical. Today Magnus specialize in Red
Teaming.

Magnus will do something we haven't facilited in OWASP CPH before - He
will do a double-presentation - to take you on a technical security
ride.. Keep reading to learn more...

### Thursday, February 18, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/275689509/)\]

SIEM and Elasticsearch for absolute beginners

Curious about SIEM and/or Elastic? You heard about it, but don't really
know what it is? You know what it is, but curious about what to do next?
This is the talk for you! We will have a few subjects for you:

- SIEM as a concept
- Elastic as platform and it's usability
- Introduction to Elastic SIEM
- Introduction to TheHive - a security incident response platform that
  can help you get the most out of your Elastic platform.

Elastic is available for free - so is TheHive. So everybody can be on
board here.

### Tuesday, February 16, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/276167153/)\]

Mød Alexander Krog, en af Lyrebirds ethical hackers (OWASP youth event)

Disclaimer: the event will be in Danish, targeted at students 15-25
years old. Everyone is welcome to participate.

Har du altid undret dig over hvordan livet som professionel hacker er?
Måske vil du gerne være én? Mød Alexander Krog, som sammen med sit hold
af hackere "Lyrebirds" opdagede "Cablehaunt", en kritisk sårbarhed som
var i stand til at give hackere adgang til modems rundt omkring i hele
verden, hvilket potentielt ville have katastrofale konsekvenser. Alex
vil fortælle sin historie, hvordan han endte op som en der professionelt
finder IT-sikkerhedsmæssigfe sårbarheder, hvordan de fandt det nævnte
sikkerhedshul. Alex deler sit indblik og erfaring indenfor IT-sikkerheds
verdenen. Efterfølgende stiller Alex op til alle dine spørgsmål på
YouTube.

### January 21st, 2021 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/275404398/)\]

As we move into this mid- and post-pandemic world with remote and
in-office work blending, what must organizations consider, in order to
sustain data and application security and privacy while still
considering an efficient working- and user experience? How does remote
work change the security stack mix? And what's still missing?

We will also be diving into how innovation in cyber became a must and
how that can and will support companies and users on a daily basis.

YOUR PANELISTS ARE

Lone Juul Dransfeldt Christensen, Senior Security Architect at Bang &
Olufsen. Formely in NNIT and the Danish Police.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/ldransfeldt/

Martin Clausen, Chief Security Architect, Head of Architecture, Research
and Development at Saxo Bank. Former Head of Cyber Innovation Labs at
Danske Bank. https://www.linkedin.com/in/martin-clausen/

Luke Herbert-Andersen, PhD in Computer Science.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/lukeherbert/

Oksana Kulyk, Assistant Professor, Center for Information Security and
Trust, IT-Universtiy of Copenhagen. Co-PI of the ASCD project
(Assessment on the Status of CyberSecurity in Denmark).
https://twitter.com/okskulyk/

### December 10th, 2020 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/274829683/)\]

#### Tim Sloth Jørgensen

Program chief for cybersecurity in the Danish Industry Foundation, Chief
Strategy Officer of Defence and Security at Terma A/S, advisor to the
Danish Ministry og Defence, professor at Copenhagen Business School,
former Chief of the Danish Defence.
https://www.linkedin.com/in/tim-sloth-jorgensen-3b199a23/

Tim will share his insights based on several years of first-hand
experience, and will tell us about what they are looking for when
investing in new cybersecurity projects - What is he anticipating? Is he
hopeful or concerned for the future?

#### Rasmus L. Fruergaard-Pedersen, Security Software Engineer at Kamstrup {#rasmus-l-fruergaard-pedersen-security-software-engineer-at-kamstrup}

(https://www.linkedin.com/in/rfruergaard/)

Rasmus enables the business to use security correctly. Innovation in
software, sensors and communications is what the company Kamstrup is
associated with, but how do they ensure a sufficient security stance
across a business spanning that wide? Rasmus will talk briefly about
technical security champions, business security principles and how to
ensure a common understanding of what security is acceptable.

What will you learn from this talk? Translating technical security to
business risk; Making security a competitive parameter; Questions to ask
when wanting to secure a product in a complex business environment.

### November 18th, 2020 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/274191483/)\]

#### A Night of Fraud and Deception

This time we will be focusing on fraud - primarily past, present and
future of fraud and related crime in Denmark. The event will feature
talks from Sune Gabelgård, Fraud Crusader at https://www.mobilepay.dk/
and Ketil Clorius, Head of Global Fraud Management at
https://danskebank.dk/. We'll talk about juicy, crazy mindblowing case
studies and methods used by threat actors. History and future will also
be touched upon.

### May 5th, 2020 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/270213570/)\]

#### "Going Phishin' with GoPhish" by Alethe Denis and Patrick Laverty

Want to learn how to put together a phishing campaign? Great, let's do
it. We will use the free and open-source tool GoPhish to launch
campaigns. We'll show how to install, set up GoPhish, create each of the
necessary pieces and launch. We'll also talk about pretexts and how
"mean" should we be, and mix in some stories of phishing successes and
failures.

### April 16th, 2020 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/268476837/)\]

#### Claus Vesthammer

Ethics and philosophy, politics and procedures. Experiences with the
framework of responsible disclosure, positive and negative from the real
world. Common problems regarding detection of vulnerabilities vs.
hacking.

#### Magnus K Stubman

Magnus will then provide a quick introduction to finding file
permissions and privileged escalation vulnerabilities (DLL hijacking,
etc.) in Windows with procmon, accessenum, ghidra and IOninja. And
review related selected CVEs, our own and others.

#### Sticks & Stones, Breaking Bones, by Lucas Lundgren {#sticks--stones-breaking-bones-by-lucas-lundgren}

Experiences in pentesting medical devices, including DICOM and PACS
machines. References here:
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/sticks-stones-breaking-bones-lucas-lundgren/
https://techcrunch.com/2020/01/10/medical-images-exposed-pacs/

### January 30th, 2020 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/267302307/)\]

#### Clickshare \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fcwwGMNdOAk_H3bDNgqEtJsDuqK7IXCk)\]

Dmitry Janushkevich from F-Secure will talk about major vulnerabilities
found in ClickShare. More info on
https://labs.f-secure.com/advisories/multiple-vulnerabilities-in-barco-clickshare/

#### Cable haunt: \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lRi4NLDpwHRFaqJ-NAi2oHTVoIB6Zaf0)\]

Researchers (mostly) from Lyrebirds found critical vulnerabilites found
in various cable modems. They will talk about what they found and a bit
on how. More info at https://cablehaunt.com/. Prior to the meeting it's
possible to join #chapters-copenhagen in the OWASP slack (invite link
below) and ask questions and suggest topics to cover. So please do so.

#### DMARC (and friends): \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1XBz_OVgkzOZzykwWttK2VcuT1MeCVGpy)\]

Dennis Kjær Jensen (or just SiGNOUT) will tell you about DMARC, SPF and
all the other email extending security features that you simply have to
have enabled on your domain to not look to much like a fool now that
it's 2020 and those vulnerabilities have been around forever now. After
that Kevin Kruse will tell you what he has done to secure his own email
domain (via Proton Mail) and hopefully inspire you to do the same.

#### 36c3 wrap-up: \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1nxWEH_FLk-2PUnwn5QHllgkinLYaoc05)\] {#36c3-wrap-up-slides}

Denis Smajlović will tell us about his (mis)adventures on his recent
trip to Leipzig and 36c3.

#### Backdoors & Breaches: {#backdoors--breaches}

Klaus Agnoletti will introduce you to 'Backdoors & Breaches', a card
game designed to train the incident response process. After pizza I'll
set up a few gaming sessions. If you got a game at BSides København
already, please bring it along with a 20-sided dice. If you don't have
it, fear not, I have a few games left that I'll give away.

### November 25th, 2019 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/266380643/)\]

#### Let's Encrypt: An Automated Certificate Authority to Encrypt the Entire Web

*Speaker:* Alex Halderman

*Abstract:* Let's Encrypt is a free, open, and automated HTTPS
certificate authority (CA) created to advance HTTPS adoption to the
entire Web. Since its launch in late 2015, Let's Encrypt has grown to
become theworld's largest HTTPS CA, accounting for more currently valid
certificates than all other browser-trusted CAs combined. By
January2019, it had issued over 538 million certificates for 223 million
domain names. We describe how we built Let's Encrypt, including the
architecture of the CA software system (Boulder) and the structure of
the organization that operates it (ISRG), and we discuss lessons learned
from the experience. We also describe the design of ACME,the
IETF-standard protocol we created to automate CA--server inter-actions
and certificate issuance, and survey the diverse ecosystem of ACME
clients, including Certbot, a software agent we created to automate
HTTPS deployment. Finally, we measure Let's Encrypt's impact on the Web
and the CA ecosystem. We hope that the success of Let's Encrypt can
provide a model for further enhancements to the Web PKI and for future
Internet security infrastructure.

#### Social Engineering For Physical Intrusions

*Speaker:* Sarka "the pirate queen"

*Objectives:* Objective is to let people understand what are different
social engineering exploits that can be used against them, their
employees or their loved ones. After holistic approach of different
human attack vectors I use for my social engineering attacks for
physical intrusions, I will step to the defensive side to let the
audience understand what controls to put in place to stop a real
malicious attackers.

*Description:* Social Engineering has many different faces from using
open source intelligence (OSINT), phishing, vishing, smishing and all
the other '-ishings',dropping weaponized USB flash drives to eventually
getting right in middle of your target's own office! As there are many
tools and described ways of all the -ishings, but almost all of them do
not require any interaction with target. And I would like to focus on
physical intrusions. If you are interested how I break into buildings
like a pirate queen, I will explain how to interact with our target
directly and that requires certain knowledge of techniques and skills.

There are many different skills and techniques while approaching a human
target and testing their security. I would like to look at different
human attack vectors.I also look at how to use this knowledge to not
only understand world around us and better our own situational
awareness, but I also explain why this is a fun topic we should teach
our employees that would help with defending our company but also our
loved ones. I like to uncover my offensive thinking while using facial
expressions , body language or psychology research but I also see myself
though someone else's eyes, who's daily bread is defending networks and
tries to understand human factor while deploying defense in depth at
work.

### August 29th, 2019 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/263639514/)\]

#### Reporting on BSides Las Vegas and DEF CON

*Presenter:* Christian Dinesen, NNIT

#### Approaching Bluetooth in 2019

*Presenter:* Martin Schroter *Abstract:* Although Bluetooth has been
around for the better part of 30 years, we keep innovating on the
technology and new uses are found every year. I want to cover:
vulnerabilities in Bluetooth 1 up to 5; understanding the cryptography
of Bluetooth; going over the considerations your company needs to make,
when you decide to adopt Bluetooth into your infrastructure; know your
tools Ubertooth sniffing, btlejuice, btlejack, gattacker; jamming
Bluetooth drones mid air! Can we really trust this technology and what
are the challenges?

#### Experiences in OSINT

*Presenter:* Bjarne Tersbøl, Special Advisor at Konkurrence- og
Forbrugerstyrelsen / Danish Competition and Consumer Autority

### May 27th, 2019 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/260941433/)\]

#### Security in LPWAN IoT, a comparison (SigFox, LoRaWaN, NB-IoT)

*Name:* Florian Coman *Bio:* Security Analyst at TDC, MSc in
Telecommunication at DTU *Abstract:* I've investigated the security
features and possible vulnerabilities of some LPWAN IoT technologies:
the license-free SigFox and LoRaWAN and the cellular NB-IoT. I have
looked at their End-to-End architecture (from end-device to application
server) and I will present some of my findings during the talk.

#### "Just Hacker Things with Jayson"

*Name:* Jayson E. Street (http://jaysonestreet.com/) *Abstract:* Instead
of a usual talk, this will be an open discussion. He will share several
stories of his travels & exploits (focused around Social Engineering
where Jayson has mnay years of experience) but mostly will be there to
answer questions about hacking, blue team, red team and DEF CON Groups!
So come with questions and expect a few answers and a lot of great hugs!

### March 28th, 2019 \[[meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/events/258987408/)\]

#### XSSER: From XSS to RCE 3.0 \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TPKkvLBot-h9dmk_wHupRj7LTNFKHUR2)\] {#xsser-from-xss-to-rce-30-slides}

*Abstract:* This presentation demonstrates how an attacker can utilise
XSS to execute arbitrary code on the web server when an administrative
user inadvertently triggers a hidden XSS payload. Custom tools and
payloads integrated with Metasploit's Meterpreter in a highly automated
approach will be demonstrated live, including post-exploitation
scenarios and interesting data that can be obtained from compromised web
applications. This version includes more payloads for common web apps
and various other improvements too!"\
*Author:* Hans-Michael Varbaek / TDC Group

### October 25th, 2018 \[[meetup](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/owasp-local-meetup-tickets-50365223740#)\]

#### An ice-cold Boot to break BitLocker \[[slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1VDfS-wNM7ywDW1NwMWmOCzcAd1yiVNCG)\]

*Authors:* Olle Segerdahl & Pasi Saarinen / F-Secure

## Sponsors

- TDC <https://tdc.dk/>
- Dubex <https://www.dubex.dk/>
- IT-University of Copenhagen <https://www.itu.dk/>
- Copenhagen Business School <https://www.cbs.dk/>

## Local News

Meeting Locations: IT University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen Business
School

Everyone is welcome to join us at our chapter meetings.
:::
::::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: repo
:::

::: github-buttons
[Watch](https://github.com/owasp/www-chapter-copenhagen/subscription){.github-button
icon="octicon-eye" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Watch on GitHub"}
[Star](https://github.com/owasp/www-chapter-copenhagen){.github-button
icon="octicon-star" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Star on GitHub"}
:::

:::::: {.sidebar role="complementary"}
::: owasp-sidebar-top
**The OWASP^®^ Foundation** works to improve the security of software
through its community-led open source software projects, hundreds of
chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local
and global conferences.
:::

### Downloads or Social Links

- [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/OWASP-Copenhagen-Chapter/)

### Code Repository

- [repo](https://github.com/hoheinzollern/OWASP-Local-Meetup)

### Leaders

- [Alessandro
  Bruni](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#f1909d948282909f95839edf9383849f98b19e86908281df9e8396)
- [Andrada
  Son](../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#2d4c43495f4c494c035e42436d425a4c5e5d03425f4a)

:::: owasp-sidebar-bottom
### Upcoming OWASP Global Events

::: {#global-event-div}
:::
::::
::::::
:::::::::::
