:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {.main-wrapper .document}
::::::::::::::::::::::::::: {#main .page-body .tab role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="main-link" tabindex="0"}
::: doc-title
Rules of Procedure
:::

# Whistleblower & Anti-Retaliation Policy {#whistleblower-anti-retaliation-policy .page-title}

1.  [[
    ]{style="font-size: 3em; color: lightgray; vertical-align:middle;"}Board,
    Volunteer, and Participant Travel Policy](travel-2.html)
2.  [Working Groups Policy[
    ]{style="font-size: 3em; color: lightgray; vertical-align:middle;"}](working-groups-2.html)

::::::::::::::::::::::::: {#div-main .section .page-body .tab}
Approved by the OWASP Board of Directors on 2024-06-25

## OWASP Whistleblower & Anti-Retaliation Policy {#owasp-whistleblower--anti-retaliation-policy}

The OWASP Foundation requires Board members, employees, and volunteers
to observe high standards of business and personal ethics in the conduct
of their duties and responsibilities. As employees and representatives
of the OWASP Foundation, we must practice honesty and integrity in
fulfilling our responsibilities and comply with all applicable laws and
regulations. The purpose of this policy is to encourage any concerned
parties to come forward with credible information on illegal practices
or violations of adopted policies of the organization. The policy
specifies that the organization will protect the individual from
retaliation and identifies the appropriate procedure(s) for reporting
these issues.

### I. Reporting Responsibility {#i-reporting-responsibility}

This Whistleblower Policy is intended to encourage and enable employees
and others to raise serious concerns internally so that the OWASP
Foundation can address and correct inappropriate conduct and actions. It
is the responsibility of all board members, employees, and volunteers to
report concerns about violations of the OWASP Foundation's code of
ethics or suspected violations of law or regulations that govern the
OWASP Foundation's operations.

### II. No Retaliation {#ii-no-retaliation}

It is contrary to the values of the OWASP Foundation for anyone to
retaliate against any board member, employee, or volunteer who in good
faith reports an ethics violation, or a suspected violation of law, such
as a complaint of discrimination, or suspected fraud, or suspected
violation of any regulation governing the operations of the OWASP
Foundation. Anyone who retaliates against someone who has reported a
violation in good faith is subject to discipline up to and including
termination of employment, removal from office, and revocation of
membership.

### III. Initiating an Informal Complaint {#iii-initiating-an-informal-complaint}

OWASP encourages participants and members who have concerns about
breaches of policy, Code of conduct violations, or similar, to report
the incident as soon as possible to stop the behavior from happening.
Wherever possible, please make an informal complaint in the first
instance with local chapter, project, or event leaders before escalating
to a formal complaint, particularly around matters of personal safety or
harassment. OWASP does not tolerate unethical behavior, violence,
harassment, or bullying behavior, or breaches of the OWASP Code of
Conduct or Event Code of Conduct. If the matter is an emergency or a
member or participant feels unsafe, please call local law enforcement
immediately before making an informal or formal complaint.

A. **Employees**. The OWASP Foundation has an approved Staff Handbook
covering the Foundation's employment and HR policies, including
complaints, whistleblowing policies and processes. Foundation staff
wishing to make a complaint or report should follow the policy and
process as detailed in the most recently approved Employee Handbook, as
published in OWASP's HR portal. If an OWASP member or participant wishes
to make an informal complaint relating to a staff member or Foundation
process, please contact the OWASP Executive Director in the first
instance, who will may escalate the issue to OWASP's HR firm, the Board,
or both, as the case requires. Staff are required to follow OWASP's Code
of Conduct, but informal complaints or whistleblower reports by the
public about Foundation staff will be handled per the Staff Handbook.

B. **Non-Employees**. All individuals are encouraged to share questions,
concerns, suggestions, or complaints with OWASP's Executive Director, a
member of the OWASP Board of Directors, or the [OWASP Compliance
Team](../../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#6605090b160a0f0708050326091107151648091401).
This person will then serve as their point-of-contact during the
Whistleblower process, as well as the person responsible for capturing
and archiving all related evidence, unless a conflict of interest is
identified. If a conflict of interest is identified, the
point-of-contact will defer responsibility to either the Chair of the
Board or (another member of) the Compliance Team.

Please report incidents or concerns as soon as possible. Informal
reports over one year of age are unlikely to be resolved to anyone's
satisfaction. Please proceed to a formal complaint if the incident or
concern occurred more than a year in the past.

### IV. Commitment to Peaceful Conflict Resolution {#iv-commitment-to-peaceful-conflict-resolution}

The OWASP Foundation recognizes that conflict between contributors
participating in such a diverse community will happen from time to time.
Our commitment is to attempt to prevent or resolve conflict before it
escalates to the point of a formal complaint. Thus, if both parties
agree, we will appoint either a neutral internal mediator (approved by
both parties) or a neutral third-party mediator to help the parties
reach a peaceful resolution. We strongly encourage all board members,
employees, and volunteers to attempt mediation as a means for conflict
resolution prior to submitting a formal complaint as outlined below.

### V. Initiating a Formal Complaint {#v-initiating-a-formal-complaint}

At any point in time, an OWASP Foundation board member, employee, or
volunteer may choose to file a formal complaint regarding the ethical or
legal violations of another member of our community. This complaint must
be submitted in writing (non-verbal) to the [OWASP Compliance
Team](../../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#33505c5e435f5a525d5056735c445240431d5c4154).
A valid complaint must include all background information necessary to
evaluate the request, a list of each ethical or legal violation, as well
as all evidence to support the claims. Upon submission, the Compliance
Team will evaluate that the complaint is valid and will respond back
that either the complaint has been accepted, or it is lacking
information necessary to properly evaluate (specifying what it is
lacking). If the formal complaint relates to Foundation staff or
procedures, the Compliance Team will forward the complaint to the
Executive Director for resolution following the complaints or
whistleblower process as set out in the latest approved Staff Handbook,
and report the matter to the Board for oversight purposes.

Once a complaint has been determined as valid, the complainant is asked
to cease direct contact with the individual whom they are making the
complaint against. Attempts to facilitate direct contact, especially
regarding the complaint in question, may result in the complaint being
dismissed by a Compliance Officer. Currently, we also ask that the
complainant refrain from speaking on the matter with anyone other than a
Compliance Officer, to ensure the utmost amount of confidentiality and
integrity on the matter. Disregarding this request may also result in
the complaint being dismissed by a Compliance Officer. The Compliance
Officer will notify the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors that a
formal complaint has been filed, the date it was filed, the
complainant's name, and the party or parties named in the complaint.

Reports should be made in a timely fashion to assist in the rapid
resolution of any complaint whilst details are fresh in everyone's
recollection and evidence is more likely to be available. Reports of
incidents more than three years in the past will be evaluated, but there
is no obligation under this policy to conduct a formal investigation due
to the age of the complaint and likely lack of evidence or any actions
to resolve the issue.

### VI. Investigating a Formal Complaint {#vi-investigating-a-formal-complaint}

After a Compliance Officer has determined that a complaint is valid and
has notified the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors as outlined above,
they will initiate an investigation into the complaint. At this stage, a
Compliance Officer, or their designee, will perform an interview of the
complainant and any witnesses to the events alleged in the complaint.
Additionally, a Compliance Officer will provide the subject of the
complaint with a summary of the complaint against them (not an actual
copy of the complaint) and allow them sufficient time to prepare for an
interview with a Compliance Officer, or their designee. All interviews
will be conducted either in a written question and answer format or
recorded in an audio format to preserve evidence and ensure the
objectivity and integrity of the investigation. All individuals involved
in the investigation are expected to maintain confidentiality to the
extent possible consistent with the need to conduct an adequate
investigation and will refrain from speaking or posting publicly about
the complaint or the investigation.

### VII. Concluding an Investigation {#vii-concluding-an-investigation}

Once a Compliance Officer is satisfied that they have spoken to all
concerned parties and feels that they have enough information necessary
to make a recommendation, they will begin to create a final report
noting the allegations, the actors involved, their determination as to
the veracity of the allegations, any remedial actions recommended, and
any rationale for their determinations. Once complete, the final report
will be provided to the complainant, the subject of the complaint, and
any actors, individually, involved to allow them the opportunity to
comment on the final report, which will not affect the final
determination. They will be given 72 hours to respond, at which point,
all responses will be aggregated alongside the final report, and any
evidence collected during the investigation, and provided to the
Executive Director and the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors by the
Compliance Team. At this point, the investigation can be considered
closed.

### VIII. Determination by the Board {#viii-determination-by-the-board}

Once the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors receives the final report,
actor comments, and supporting evidence, they will require sufficient
time to review and discuss all aspects of the situation and
investigation. They should strongly consider the recommendations of the
Compliance Team report, but are by no means required to follow them.
From here, the standard OWASP Foundation process for Board of Director
proposals and voting will apply except that any Director named in the
complaint will not be allowed to vote. Once an outcome has been agreed
to, a formal decision will be written up and made public, via a post on
the OWASP Blog and the OWASP Leaders List, within two weeks of the vote,
along with the report provided by the Compliance Team. Appropriate
corrective action will be taken if warranted by the investigation.

### IX. Compliance Officer {#ix-compliance-officer}

The OWASP Foundation's Compliance Officers are responsible for ensuring
that all complaints about unethical or illegal conduct are investigated
and resolved. The Compliance Team will advise the Board of Directors on
all complaints and their resolution and will report at least annually on
any compliance activity relating to accounting or alleged financial
improprieties. Compliance Officers are empowered to conduct their
investigations in isolation of the Board in order to maintain
independence but are free to involve members of the Board as necessary.
It is solely the Compliance Officer's charge to determine whether a
complaint can be considered valid for investigation though any
individual may submit a complaint as noted above.

The Compliance Team shall immediately notify the Board of Directors and
Executive Director of any concerns or complaint regarding corporate
accounting practices, internal controls or auditing and work with the
committee until the matter is resolved.

At least one Compliance Officer shall be identified by the Board of
Directors and approved by a two thirds vote by January 1 of each year. A
member of the OWASP Board of Directors may not also serve as the
Compliance Officer during their tenure on the Board. If the Board of
Directors is not able to affirmative two thirds vote on at least one
Compliance Officer, a neutral, third-party executive ombuds service will
be contracted to serve in this role.

The current Compliance Officers are:

:::::::::::::::::::::::: {#compliance-officers .section .corporate}
<div>

::::::::: member-container

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: member-img-container
::: {.member-img style="background-image: url(../../assets/images/people/board-grant.png);"}
:::
::::

:::::: member-caption
## Grant Ongers

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Compliance Officer**\

::: member-location
United Kingdom
:::

::: member-location
[\@rewtd](https://twitter.com/rewtd)
:::

::: member-location
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/rewtd/>
:::
::::::

\
\
:::::::::

::::::::: member-container

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: member-img-container
::: {.member-img style="background-image: url(../../assets/images/people/board-vandana.jpg);"}
:::
::::

:::::: member-caption
## Vandana Verma Sehgal

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Compliance Officer**\

::: member-location
India
:::

::: member-location
[\@InfosecVandana](https://twitter.com/InfosecVandana)
:::

::: member-location
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/vandana-verma/>
:::
::::::

\
\
:::::::::

:::::::: member-container

------------------------------------------------------------------------

:::: member-img-container
::: {.member-img style="background-image: url(../../assets/images/index.html);"}
:::
::::

::::: member-caption
## Rick Mello

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Compliance Officer**\

::: member-location
United States
:::

\

::: member-location
<https://www.linkedin.com/in/rick-mello/>
:::
:::::

\
\
::::::::

</div>
::::::::::::::::::::::::

### X. Confidentiality {#x-confidentiality}

Violations or suspected violations may be submitted on a confidential
basis by the complainant. Reports of violations or suspected violations
will be kept confidential to the extent possible, consistent with the
need to conduct an adequate investigation.

### XI. Contact {#xi-contact}

The Complaint / Whistleblower / Compliance Team's email address is:
[compliance '@'
owasp.org](../../cdn-cgi/l/email-protection.html#13707c7e637f7a727d7076537c647260633d7c6174)
:::::::::::::::::::::::::

1.  [[
    ]{style="font-size: 3em; color: lightgray; vertical-align:middle;"}Board,
    Volunteer, and Participant Travel Policy](travel-2.html)
2.  [Working Groups Policy[
    ]{style="font-size: 3em; color: lightgray; vertical-align:middle;"}](working-groups-2.html)
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: repo
:::

::: github-buttons
[Watch](https://github.com/owasp/www-policy/subscription){.github-button
icon="octicon-eye" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Watch on GitHub"}
[Star](https://github.com/owasp/www-policy){.github-button
icon="octicon-star" data-size="large" show-count="true"
aria-label="Star on GitHub"}
:::

:::::: {.sidebar role="complementary"}
::: owasp-sidebar-top
**The OWASP^®^ Foundation** works to improve the security of software
through its community-led open source software projects, hundreds of
chapters worldwide, tens of thousands of members, and by hosting local
and global conferences.
:::

[Back to Policies & Procedures](../index.html)

### Rules of Procedure

- [Awards and Scholarships Policy](awards-and-scholarships.html)

- [Board of Directors Code of Conduct](board-code-of-conduct.html)

- [Board, Volunteer, and Participant Travel Policy](travel.html)

- [Branding Guidelines](branding.html)

- [Chapters Policy](chapters.html)

- [Code of Conduct](code-of-conduct-2.html)

- [Committees Policy](committees.html)

- 

- [Community Review Process](community-review-process.html)

- [Conference & Event Attendee](conferences-events-2.html)

- [Conflict Resolution](conflict-resolution.html)

- [Conflict of Interest Policy](conflict-of-interest-2.html)

- [Donations Policy](donations-2.html)

- [Elections Policy](election.html)

- [Events Policy](events.html)

- [Events Submission Timeline Change](events-timeline.html)

- [Expense Policy](expense-reimbursement.html)

- [Force Majeure and Sanctions Policy](force-majeure-sanctions.html)

- [General Disclaimer](general-disclaimer.html)

- [Global AppSec Program Teams](program-team-2.html)

- [Grant Policy](grants.html)

- [Implementation of Bylaw or Policy Changes](policy-changes-2.html)

- 

- [Mailing Lists](mailing-list.html)

- [Membership Policy](membership.html)

- [OWASP Word Mark Usage Guidelines](mark-usage-guidelines.html)

- [Privacy Policy](privacy-2.html)

- [Project Policy](projects.html)

- 

- 

- 

- [Signatory](signatory2.html)

- [Social Media](social-media.html)

- Whistleblower & Anti-Retaliation Policy

- [Working Groups Policy](working-groups.html)

:::: owasp-sidebar-bottom
### Upcoming OWASP Global Events

::: {#global-event-div}
:::
::::
::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
